>> Kyle Simpson: There's another
nuance to this life cycle.
And if you're starting to get a little bit
overwhelmed by all these life cycle
nuances, you're in good company.
It's a lot more complex than it was
with just a regular web worker.
The web workers there and then the web
worker's dead and then it's back and
then it's dead.
There's a lot of complexity here, and
it's because of all the things that we're
potentially breaking about web experience
by installing a service worker.
We have to be able to allow the author
of the service worker to handle
all the different cases, and
that's the reason for this complexity.
But your service worker being
activated does not mean that,
like when we did the self.skip waiting, it
doesn't mean that a page that was talking
to the old service worker immediately
knows about the new service worker.
So you may have a page instance for
example,
imagine you had three tabs open and
you've loaded up a new tab and
we've said skip waiting,
I've got this new service worker.
But what about those other two tabs that
are still thinking they're talking to and
controlled by that old service worker,
which is now gone.
So one of the complexities that we need
to handle is we essentially need to tell
the page, hey, I'm controlling you now.
And this is what actually fires
that controller change event that
we've talked about.
And the way we do that
is called clients.claim.
Clients is plural because it's basically
saying go find all my clients.
This is actually an API that
you could cycle through all of
the connected clients and do this for
only some of them if you really cared.
I can't imagine any use case why
you wouldn't wanna claim all
of the open clients, but
maybe there's some things there.
Just for the consistency of it,
since this has not activated until
after we have claimed all of these,
and that is an asynchronous event,
we're gonna await the clients.claim,
and then that's when we're gonna print
the service worker is activated.
This one doesn't need to be
in a sync function anymore.
You can leave it as one if you
like the consistency of it.
But the reason and this is a little
nuance of the way promises work.
But the reason that we need this is that
we need a promise to pass to this thing.
And we can't really construct unless
you did it the manual way like making,
like doing a new promise that's passed
in and then doing the work inside of it.
We can't really have this thing
being an async function and
say event that wait until myself.
So that's why I have it in a separate
function called handleActivation
that can do all of my asynchronous stuff.
And I get one promise that rolls up all
that behavior and says that's all done.
So that's the reason for
splitting this out.
I've heard other people say that they like
to do inline async function expressions
here, like an async iffy.
I just like to have stand alone function
declaration, which is why I did it here.
But you could either do that or
just do an inline async if that's
more of your style.
Okay, well I think that's it for
setting up our service worker.
So let's actually try it, let's check and
see if we can make this work.
Make sure your files are saved.
Come over here to the browser and
before you actually refresh the page,
I wanna direct you to the application
tab in your developer tools.
This is where you're going
to spend a lot of time when
you're working on service workers.
And there's a couple of
things to point out.
There's a service workers item here and
you'll notice that there's
three check marks.
These are ones that you can control
the service worker behavior for.
We're not going to get too much into them.
There's a lot of Chrome documentation
in some of those links that I
pointed you to and the readme.
There's a lot of documentation
about the implications of this.
The reason I don't use this one very much
is because it's really
easy to leave that on.
And then you're trying to do something
with your service worker and
nothing's happening and
you forgot this check mark was on.
I literally wasted like three days one
time on a project where I was like,
why is this stuff not,
I'm updating my service worker.
I can see the new service worker.
Why isn't it doing what
I want with this item?
And then it was because I
had this check mark on and
the browser was just bypassing it.
So use it with caution and
make sure to remember you turn
on something like that mode.
This one I'm pretty sure is
now a defunct option because
I believe that is the default now,
that it always updates service worker.
It used to be that it
used the browser cache,
now I'm pretty sure it
does it all the time.
So, I don't even think we
need that check mark anymore.
And this one is not one I've ever
used because I use the network tab
to force offline, but this can force just
your service worker into an offline mode.
I've never needed my service worker
offline, but my browser online.
But that may be an use
case you might need.
When your service worker
has installed itself,
there's gonna be a bunch of stuff
that we see here that we don't see.
And when we start adding items to our
cache, it's gonna be listed here and
there's a few of these other ones
that we'll end up looking at later.
By the way, if you never knew,
this is where you can inspect any
items in local storage on a page.
So, application tab is actually
a pretty important tab to check out.
Anyway, let's go back to our console.
Well actually,
let's stay on the application tab and
let's go load our page.
Let's do a refresh and now, we see that
we have a service worker installed.
It's given a unique ID, which if you
are doing a lot of rapid updates you might
pay attention to that changing,
and if you don't see that
number changing it's because your
service worker isn't getting installed.
One thing to know is if you have
an error in a service worker,
you definitely will get
a message in your console.
But it's real easy, if you've got a bunch
of console messages, to miss that stuff.
So one thing you wanna have like
an eagle eye attention to is,
if you're trying to make a change
to your service worker and
it doesn't seem to be taking, it might
be because it's not loading at all.
The protocol for service workers is
if there's any error on installation,
it throws that service worker away and
keeps the old one.
So I've had this happen where I've been
trying to make a change and I didn't
realize there was some syntax error that
was causing it to never get installed.
So, just be aware of that.
Remember, I said the idea that we can
mess around with our service workers.
One of the things that we can do is
start and stop our service workers.
Before you click that though,
let's go to our console.
And see that we saw service worker version
1 is starting, installed, and activating.
But now, let's come back to our
Application tab and click Stop.
That's mimicking what might have
happened if the browser decided,
I don't need the service worker anymore.
And then if we click Start again,
it's like then coming back to a page or
reviving a page that was already open.
And you'll notice that when
we go back to the console,
we got another indication of
that service worker is starting.
So we didn't really go through
the installation and activation but
we did redo any of our
starting initialization stuff.
So beware of what that means for
the status of things.
If you have something that you
need to persist across those,
you're gonna have to store it somewhere,
like for example in index db.
This is a little bit strange,
I don't know why, but
service workers don't have
access to local storage.
So you can't store stuff in local storage,
but they do have index db and
you can store stuff in index db, okay?
So if you do have a piece of state that
you need to store across indications of
your service worker, remember that.
But if you start doing persistent storage
remember that you need to be cleaning up
after yourself for you to eventually
run the browser out of its quota and
then you won't be able to store anything.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay, so now we have
our first service worker written.
It's not doing anything
particularly interesting yet,
but give yourselves a pat on the back.
You've now written your
first service worker.
Any questions before we move on?
>> Speaker 2: I noticed you don't tend to
use arrow functions very often or at all.
Is there a reason for that?
Does it cause a lot of issues or
is it not compliant or?
>> Kyle Simpson: I glad you said that
at all because I don't use arrow
functions at all.
>> Speaker 2: Okay, [LAUGH]
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah,
I'm very much not a fan
of arrow functions.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Kyle Simpson: And the reasons for
that are outside of our
discussion scope here,
but it's essentially a readability thing.
It's an anonymous function expression and
I think it communicates less
than when a named function.
When I have a function with a name.
So this could have been like an anonymous
arrow expression iffy thing.
But the fact that I want to tell
you that it's handling activation
I think that name makes
my code more readable.
So I'll use function declarations when
they're gonna be multiple lines and
this one is.
Or if it's just gonna be a one liner I'll
do an in line function expression but
I still give it a name.
>> Speaker 2: Got you.
>> Kyle Simpson: Because in my mind,
every function,
if it exists in your
program it has a purpose.
And if it has a purpose it has a name, and
the user shouldn't have to read the code
in the function to
figure out it's purpose.
You should just tell
them what the purpose is.
>> Speaker 2: So it's a readability
constraint, not a technical constraint.
>> Kyle Simpson: It is, yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Kyle Simpson: Well there are technical
reasons why arrow functions may or
may not be what you want.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Kyle Simpson: There are technical
behaviors like with this keyword,
but my primary reason for
generally avoiding them is I don't
like to have poor readability.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
In blog JS, the IT Service Worker function
that needs to be asynchronous
because the register method?
>> Kyle Simpson: Because we're
doing an await right here.
>> Speaker 2: Okay, and that-
>> Kyle Simpson: The register method
is asynchronous, and
we wanna wait on that before moving on.